# Text Analyzer Tool

A project that can read, write, update, and delete texts from/to the database and demonstrate some analysis on particular texts. **This project uses a [boilerplate/starter project](https://github.com/hagopj13/node-express-boilerplate) for quickly building RESTful APIs using Node.js, Express, and Mongoose.**

## Manual Installation

To install the project, follow these steps:

Clone the repo:

```bash
git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/layesh/text-analyzer
cd text-analyzer
npx rimraf ./.git
```

Install the dependencies:

```bash
yarn install
```

Set the environment variables:

```bash
cp .env.example .env

# open .env and modify the environment variables (if needed)
```

## Commands

Running locally:

```bash
yarn dev
```

Testing:

```bash
# run all tests
yarn test

# run all tests in watch mode
yarn test:watch

# run test coverage
yarn coverage
```

Docker:

```bash
# run docker container in development mode
yarn docker:dev

# run all tests in a docker container
yarn docker:test
```

Linting:

```bash
# run ESLint
yarn lint

# fix ESLint errors
yarn lint:fix

# run prettier
yarn prettier

# fix prettier errors
yarn prettier:fix
```

## Environment Variables

The environment variables can be found and modified in the `.env` file. They come with these default values:

```bash
# Port number
PORT=3000

# URL of the Mongo DB
MONGODB_URL=mongodb://127.0.0.1:27017/text-analyzer-db

# JWT
# JWT secret key
JWT_SECRET=thisisasamplesecret
# Number of minutes after which an access token expires
JWT_ACCESS_EXPIRATION_MINUTES=30
# Number of days after which a refresh token expires
JWT_REFRESH_EXPIRATION_DAYS=30

# SMTP configuration options for the email service
# For testing, you can use a fake SMTP service like Ethereal: https://ethereal.email/create
SMTP_HOST=test-server
SMTP_PORT=587
SMTP_USERNAME=test-server-username
SMTP_PASSWORD=test-server-password
EMAIL_FROM=support@textanalyzer.com
```

## API Documentation

To view the list of available APIs and their specifications, run the server and go to `http://localhost:3000/v1/docs` in your browser. This documentation page is automatically generated using the [swagger](https://swagger.io/) definitions written as comments in the route files.

### API Endpoints

List of available routes:

**Auth routes**:\
`POST /v1/auth/register` - register\
`POST /v1/auth/login` - login\

**Text routes**:\
`POST /v1/users` - create a user\
`GET /v1/users` - get all users\
`GET /v1/users/:userId` - get user\
`PATCH /v1/users/:userId` - update user\
`DELETE /v1/users/:userId` - delete user


## Authentication

To require authentication for certain routes, you can use the `auth` middleware.

```javascript
const express = require('express');
const auth = require('../../middlewares/auth');
const userController = require('../../controllers/user.controller');

const router = express.Router();

router.post('/users', auth(), userController.createUser);
```

These routes require a valid JWT access token in the Authorization request header using the Bearer schema. If the request does not contain a valid access token, an Unauthorized (401) error is thrown.

**Generating Access Tokens**:

An access token can be generated by making a successful call to the register (`POST /v1/auth/register`) or login (`POST /v1/auth/login`) endpoints. The response of these endpoints also contains refresh tokens (explained below).

An access token is valid for 30 minutes. You can modify this expiration time by changing the `JWT_ACCESS_EXPIRATION_MINUTES` environment variable in the .env file.

**Refreshing Access Tokens**:

After the access token expires, a new access token can be generated, by making a call to the refresh token endpoint (`POST /v1/auth/refresh-tokens`) and sending along a valid refresh token in the request body. This call returns a new access token and a new refresh token.

A refresh token is valid for 30 days. You can modify this expiration time by changing the `JWT_REFRESH_EXPIRATION_DAYS` environment variable in the .env file.

## Authorization

The `auth` middleware can also be used to require certain rights/permissions to access a route.

```javascript
const express = require('express');
const auth = require('../../middlewares/auth');
const userController = require('../../controllers/user.controller');

const router = express.Router();

router.post('/users', auth('manageUsers'), userController.createUser);
```

In the example above, an authenticated user can access this route only if that user has the `manageUsers` permission.

The permissions are role-based. You can view the permissions/rights of each role in the `src/config/roles.js` file.

If the user making the request does not have the required permissions to access this route, a Forbidden (403) error is thrown.

## Logging

Import the logger from `src/config/logger.js`. It is using the [Winston](https://github.com/winstonjs/winston) logging library.

Logging should be done according to the following severity levels (ascending order from most important to least important):

```javascript
const logger = require('<path to src>/config/logger');

logger.error('message'); // level 0
logger.warn('message'); // level 1
logger.info('message'); // level 2
logger.http('message'); // level 3
logger.verbose('message'); // level 4
logger.debug('message'); // level 5
```

In development mode, log messages of all severity levels will be printed to the console.

In production mode, only `info`, `warn`, and `error` logs will be printed to the console.\
It is up to the server (or process manager) to actually read them from the console and store them in log files.\
This app uses pm2 in production mode, which is already configured to store the logs in log files.

Note: API request information (request url, response code, timestamp, etc.) are also automatically logged (using [morgan](https://github.com/expressjs/morgan)).
